Steve, it's great to be back. And absolutely, the story is different for microbusinesses, and there are a few things, just top-line, that I think everyone needs to think about. One, we've seen three shocks in the last 20 years as a society as an economy, the .com bust, the great recession and now COVID. And the data is clearly showing that the communities that have more ventures — so these are the small microbusinesses, these communities handle those shocks better. What does that mean? It means lower job loss. It's also true in communities with low incomes. So, where it's really, really important, these ventures are making the difference. The second is that communities that have higher density of microbusinesses, which means more microbusinesses per hundred people, tend to do better in terms of prosperity. What does prosperity mean? We have a score for it that includes education, income, all the sort of core metrics that you would want to see, and together we call that prosperity. And these businesses really do better year over year. And the average median income that these businesses create in their communities is a whopping 11 percent higher. As an example, from 2016 to 2018 the average household median income grew about $3,600. But, if you were in a community that had only one highly active venture in it more than the other, so that density was one higher, the difference was another $400. That's real. That tells you that these microbusinesses are the backbone that help support us through the tough times. These businesses are more resilient, which means — you've got the shock, you've got the prosperity — which means they come back out of shocks much better. So, these businesses came out of the great recession much better, or these communities, I should say, came out of the great recession much better. And we're expecting to actually see similar things with COVID.
Yeah, Steve, I think the first step is — and this is the question we ask leaders when we meet them. We ask them, do you know the large businesses in your community? The answer is yes. Do you know the medium-size businesses in your community? The answer is yes. And the small businesses? Yes, many of them I know them. We meet them, you know, they have access to us. And then we ask about the microbusinesses and we say, “Hey, remember, in your community, there are probably thousands, if not tens of thousands of microbusinesses.” Many of these are side hustles. Many of these, like you said, are just the ideas people want to take online, and it's their creativity that they want to sort of put in front of the world. And these people are dynamic, they change businesses. You know, we have so many great stories in COVID where people used to run one type of business, COVID took that away, they completely pivoted, creating something else. These people are truly creative. But our leaders don't know these people. So, the first step is go to GoDaddy.com Venture Forward. Look at the microbusinesses in your community. If we don't get to know them, how are we going to help them, right? And everybody can do that. There's no requirement. You don't have to know something to do it, right? The second thing is, take a look at the data. What you will see in it is that microbusinesses improve the health of communities irrespective of rural, suburban, urban, education level, political leaning. If you control for all the factors, the venture density is what makes the difference. So, realize that, irrespective of what your stand might be, what your community might be, you can benefit, your community can benefit by knowing these people and understanding that data. And then the third step is to do the actions you know, get access for them, get the skills training, get them access to capital and give them support. I truly feel that we have to continue to talk about this. You said this; we have to create a new language. You talked about this the last time. We call it everyday entrepreneur. I love the idea of the hidden entrepreneur because these people are hidden, nobody knows about. Well, let's get to know them. Let's do those four things. If we do it at the local level, we're gonna win. If we can do it in Washington, Steve — and you can help us do that — I think the whole country wins.
