Over Thanksgiving holiday week, I was glad to see more people wearing masks in public than ever before. This compliance was consistent with a growing body of population research from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and elsewhere revealing that masks and mask mandates (in , Nebraska, Thailand and throughout over 200 countries) are associated with of COVID-19. The public messaging on behalf of masks has grown stronger and more persuasive and pervasive than ever before.
Unfortunately, I have observed that most people I encounter are not wearing their masks firmly or securely over their mouths and noses — too many use them as "chin-wear." Too many are touching their masks frequently, and too many wear their masks over their mouths only, exposing their droplet-laden noses to the air. Worse than that, too many seem to think that as long as they have some kind of mask on, they can’t possibly be spreading COVID-19. Unfortunately, this is not true.
I took a before I left, and another when I returned, self-quarantining until I knew the results, but I feared that not enough travelers were following this test-in, test-out strategy for a virus that is so easily transmissible and leads to a high percentage of asymptomatic, contagious cases. And how many have truly quarantined themselves after they have been exposed to a close contact with COVID-19?
The inconsistencies extend right to the hospitals, where essential surgeries and procedures and screening tests are deemed non-essential and are put on hold as COVID-19 cases increase. On the one hand this is understandable because of how contagious and difficult it is to contain COVID-19, on the other hand, it is important that all the public health damage caused by COVID-19, even if it is indirect, be considered at the same time if proper public health decisions are to be made. Perhaps designated COVID-19 hospitals need to once again be considered in hot zones as the total number of in the U.S. rises over 90,000.
has the fewest COVID-19 cases per 100,000 population in the country, at 595. To get there and to stay there, they have focused consistently on basic public health measures including masking, distancing and reducing the size of gatherings. They shut down quickly and reopened slowly. But now in their continuing zeal to ensure public health compliance, I believe they have taken things a step way too far. Vermont has authorized schools to interrogate their students about whether — during Thanksgiving — they or their parents violated the state’s non-essential travel restrictions requiring quarantine, or their gathering rules. An admission of guilt leads to mandatory participation in online school. If this were the honor system I wouldn’t object, but the notion of a child turning in his or her parents to the state is quite disturbing and could create a deep rift in a family. Score one for the COVID-19 police.
