Millions of researchers, clinicians, public health officials, volunteer EMTs and vaccinators have devoted innumerable hours to developing and deploying a solution to the COVID-19 pandemic at an astoundingly rapid pace — not only in vaccine discovery and production, but also in complicated systems and processes established and nimbly adapted as necessary to deliver on a vaccination timetable. This work is rooted in evidence-based information. That means clinical and public health decisions rely on the best data we have at any given time to deliver the best care for individuals, communities and the population at large. That principle fosters the most edified management possible.
In fact, not only does the lack of vaccination foster freedom for the very contagious delta variant to spread, it lays the groundwork for COVID to further mutate into newer permutations that may be even more virulent and infectious. Exercising the “freedom” to remain unvaccinated, in truth, encroaches on the freedoms of everybody else in our society and our world. The expression “live and let live” portends a circumstance where one’s refusal to get vaccinated only impacts them. With COVID-19 (or any other infectious disease, for that matter), that is not possible. Making that choice impacts all of us by prolonging the pandemic and its associated restrictions to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
That reality goes far beyond the health risks which, frankly, at least at the moment, are much higher for the unvaccinated. The renewed need for masks, social distancing, reduced crowds and gatherings, the potential closing of businesses and the return to hybrid schools, will become a vicious cycle. On the current path, the fall promises to look similar to phase two of the original COVID pandemic — not quite complete shutdown and quarantine, but definitely a life with restrictions for everyone because of the numbers of people influenced by the professed perspective of “individual liberty.”
Akin to not driving while drunk, which can save your life and those of others on the road, vaccination protects you, allows for everyone’s freedom, avoids negating the selfless work of millions of health care providers and volunteers, and impinges only on the “freedoms” of the virus itself. By avoiding protection of oneself, and therefore others, the virus beats all of us, and the heroic efforts of many may be for naught. If that is the endgame, then the choice of exercising “individual freedom” to not receive a COVID vaccination is, in actuality, choosing freedom for — rather than from — the virus.
