COVID-19 vaccination is recommended for everyone 12 years and older for the prevention of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the United States. The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) has issued interim recommendations for the use of:
These clinical considerations provide additional information to healthcare professionals and public health officials on use of COVID-19 vaccines.
On June 23, 2021, (Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna) recipients. Cases of myocarditis or pericarditis have occurred predominantly in males aged 12-29 years, with symptoms typically developing within a few days after receipt of the second dose of vaccine.
ACIP reviewed the benefits and risks of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines in the United States and determined that the benefits of using mRNA COVID-19 vaccines under the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) clearly outweigh the risks of myocarditis and pericarditis in all people aged 12 years or older. The FDA updated the EUA Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers Administering Vaccine (Vaccination Providers) and the Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers for and to include information about the occurrence of myocarditis or pericarditis in some people following use of the vaccine. Based on the benefit-risk assessment, COVID-19 vaccination continues to be recommended for everyone aged 12 years and older under the FDA’s EUAs.
ACIP highlighted the need for continued monitoring of cases of myocarditis or pericarditis after receipt of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, as well as patients’ clinical course and long-term outcomes. The benefit-risk analysis may be updated, as needed, to reflect changes in COVID-19 disease trends and additional information on the risk for myocarditis or pericarditis after mRNA COVID-19 vaccination.
Patient and vaccination provider education about the risk of myocarditis or pericarditis occurring after receipt of COVID-19 mRNA vaccines, especially among males aged 12–29 years, is important to ensure timely diagnosis and treatment. A vaccine-specific EUA fact sheet should be provided to all vaccine recipients, parents or guardians, and caregivers (when relevant) before vaccination with any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine.
Updated interim clinical considerations, including COVID-19 vaccination of people with a history of myocarditis or pericarditis and patient counseling information about the risk of myocarditis or pericarditis after receipt of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, can be found in this document as follows:
COVID-19 vaccination is recommended for everyone 12 years and older for the prevention of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the United States under the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) has issued interim recommendations for the use of:
On April 23, 2021, for use of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine in all persons ages ≥18 years; ACIP’s updated recommendation followed a review of cases of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) among Janssen COVID-19 vaccine recipients and consideration of the benefits and risks of resuming vaccination. FDA updated the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine Fact Sheet for Health Care Providers Administering Vaccine (Vaccination Providers) and Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers to include information about rare clotting events that might occur after vaccination, primarily among women aged 18–49 years.
The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines are lipid nanoparticle-formulated, nucleoside-modified mRNA vaccines encoding the prefusion spike glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. The Janssen vaccine is a recombinant replication-incompetent adenovirus type 26 (Ad26) vector encoding the stabilized prefusion spike glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2. None of the currently authorized COVID-19 vaccines are live-virus vaccines.
These interim CDC clinical considerations are informed by data submitted to the FDA for EUA of the vaccines, other data sources, , and expert opinion. These considerations apply only to the vaccine products currently authorized in the United States (i.e., Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Janssen COVID-19 vaccines). Considerations will be updated when additional information becomes available or if additional vaccine products are authorized.
In addition to the following considerations, the EUA conditions of use and storage, handling, and administration procedures described in the prescribing information should be referenced when using the , , and COVID-19 vaccines.
COVID-19 vaccination is recommended for all people 12 years and older. Under the EUAs, the following age groups are authorized to receive vaccination:
Children outside these authorized age groups should not receive COVID-19 vaccination at this time.
COVID-19 vaccines are administered intramuscularly as either a two-dose series or single dose.
A single, valid vaccination series (i.e., either a two-dose mRNA COVID-19 vaccine series or a single dose of Janssen COVID-19 vaccine) should be administered. People are not recommended to receive more than one complete COVID-19 vaccination series.
A person is considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 ≥2 weeks after receipt of the second dose in a 2-dose series (Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna) or ≥2 weeks after receipt of the single dose of the Janssen vaccine. CDC has developed . People who have a or who otherwise cannot complete a vaccination series are not considered fully vaccinated.
The second dose of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines should be administered as close to the recommended interval as possible, but not earlier than recommended (i.e., 3 weeks [Pfizer-BioNTech] or 1 month [Moderna]). However, individuals who receive the second dose up to 4 days before or at any time after the recommended date can be considered fully vaccinated.
Information on preventing, reporting, and managing COVID-19 vaccine administration errors is found in . Vaccine administration errors should be reported to the .
Any currently FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine can be used when indicated; ACIP does not state a product preference. However, COVID-19 vaccines are interchangeable.
Using the above strategies, every effort should be made to determine which vaccine product was received as the first dose to ensure completion of the vaccine series with the same product. In exceptional situations in which the mRNA vaccine product given for the first dose cannot be determined or is no longer available, any available mRNA COVID-19 vaccine may be administered at a minimum interval of 28 days between doses to complete the mRNA COVID-19 vaccination series. In situations where the same mRNA vaccine product is temporarily unavailable, it is preferable to delay the second dose (up to 6 weeks) to receive the same product than to receive a mixed series using a different product. If two doses of different mRNA COVID-19 vaccine products are administered in these situations (or inadvertently), no additional doses of either product are recommended at this time. Such persons are considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 ≥2 weeks after receipt of the second dose of an mRNA vaccine.
The safety and efficacy of Janssen COVID-19 vaccine administered after an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine has not been established. However, in limited, exceptional situations where a patient received the first dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine but is unable to complete the series with either the same or different mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (e.g., due to contraindication), a single dose of Janssen COVID-19 vaccine may be considered at a minimum interval of 28 days from the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine dose. See section for additional information on use of Janssen COVID-19 vaccine and additional precautions in people with a contraindication to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines. Patients who receive Janssen COVID-19 vaccine after a dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine should be considered to have received a valid, single-dose Janssen vaccination—not a mixed vaccination series—and are considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 ≥2 weeks after receipt of the single dose of the Janssen vaccine.
People who were vaccinated outside the United States with an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine and have received all the recommended doses any additional doses. People who received the first dose of an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine that requires two doses do not need to restart the vaccine series in the United States but should receive the second dose as close to the recommended time as possible.
Some people may have received a COVID-19 vaccine that is not currently authorized in the United States. No data are available on the safety or efficacy of receiving a COVID-19 vaccine currently authorized in the United States after receipt of a non-FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. However, in some circumstances people who received a COVID-19 vaccine not currently authorized in the United States may be offered revaccination with an FDA-authorized vaccine:
The minimum interval between the last dose of a non-FDA authorized vaccine or a WHO-listed vaccine and an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine is 28 days. Only people who have received all recommended doses of an FDA-authorized or WHO-listed COVID-19 vaccine are considered fully vaccinated for the purpose of .
COVID-19 vaccines were previously recommended to be administered alone, with a minimum interval of 14 days before or after administration of any other vaccines. This was out of an abundance of caution and not due to any known safety or immunogenicity concerns. However, substantial data have now been collected regarding the safety of COVID-19 vaccine currently authorized by FDA for use under EUA. Although data are not available for COVID-19 vaccines administered simultaneously with other vaccines, extensive experience with non-COVID-19 vaccines has demonstrated that immunogenicity and adverse event profiles are generally similar when vaccines are administered simultaneously as when they are administered alone.
COVID-19 vaccines and other vaccines . This includes simultaneous administration of COVID-19 vaccine and other vaccines on the same day, as well as coadministration within 14 days. It is unknown whether reactogenicity of COVID-19 vaccine is increased with coadministration, including with other vaccines known to be more reactogenic, such as adjuvanted vaccines or live vaccines. When deciding whether to coadminister another vaccine(s) with COVID-19 vaccine, vaccination providers should consider whether the patient is behind or at risk of becoming behind on recommended vaccines, their risk of vaccine-preventable disease (e.g., during an outbreak or occupational exposures), and the reactogenicity profile of the vaccines.
The need for and timing for COVID-19 booster doses have not been established. No additional doses are recommended at this time.
People should be offered vaccination regardless of their history of symptomatic or asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection; this includes people with prolonged post-COVID-19 symptoms. Data from clinical trials indicate that the currently authorized COVID-19 vaccines can be given safely to people with evidence of a prior SARS-CoV-2 infection. Viral testing to assess for acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or serologic testing to assess for prior infection is not recommended for the purposes of vaccine decision-making.
Currently, there are no data on the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in people with a history of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) or in adults (MIS-A). The mechanisms of MIS-C and MIS-A are not well understood but include a dysregulated immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.  It is unclear if people with a history of MIS-C or MIS-A are at risk of recurrence of the same dysregulated immune response following reinfection with SARS-CoV-2 or in response to vaccination. These theoretical concerns should be weighed against the known risks of COVID-19 from reinfection and the benefits of protection from a COVID-19 vaccine. ; however, it is unknown if this correlates with protection against reinfection and for how long protective antibody levels persist.
A conversation between the patient, their guardian(s), and their clinical team or a specialist may assist with decisions about the use of a COVID-19 vaccine, though a conversation with a healthcare professional is not required before vaccination.
For people who develop MIS-C or MIS-A that is associated with a confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection but occurs after receipt of a COVID-19 vaccine, referral to a specialist in infectious diseases, rheumatology, or cardiology should be considered. Healthcare professionals and health departments may also request a consultation from the . In addition, information about these cases should be reported to .
Currently, there are no data on the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in people who received monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma as part of COVID-19 treatment. Based on the estimated half-life of such therapies and suggesting that reinfection is uncommon in the 90 days after initial infection, vaccination should be deferred for at least 90 days. This is a precautionary measure until additional information becomes available, to avoid potential interference of the antibody therapy with vaccine-induced immune responses. This recommendation applies to people who receive passive antibody therapy before receiving any vaccine dose and to those who receive passive antibody therapy after the first dose of an mRNA vaccine but before the second dose, in which case the second dose should be deferred for at least 90 days following receipt of the antibody therapy. Receipt of passive antibody therapy in the past 90 days is not a contraindication to receipt of COVID-19 vaccine. COVID-19 vaccine doses received within 90 days after receipt of passive antibody therapy do not need to be repeated.
For people receiving antibody therapies not specific to COVID-19 treatment (e.g., intravenous immunoglobulin, RhoGAM), administration of COVID-19 vaccines either simultaneously with or at any interval before or after receipt of an antibody-containing product is unlikely to substantially impair development of a protective antibody response. Thus, there is no recommended minimum interval between antibody therapies not specific to COVID-19 treatment and COVID-19 vaccination.
For people who have received one or more doses of COVID-19 vaccine and subsequently experience COVID-19, prior receipt of a COVID-19 vaccine should not affect treatment decisions (including use of monoclonal antibodies, convalescent plasma, antiviral treatment, or corticosteroid administration) or timing of such treatments.
If a person who has SARS-CoV-2 RNA or antigen detected on a respiratory specimen collected ≥14 days after they complete all recommended doses of an FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine (defined as a ), CDC encourages local health departments, healthcare professionals, and clinical laboratories to:
COVID-19 vaccine breakthrough cases that result in hospitalization or death should be reported to .
Administration of an antiviral drug at any interval before or after vaccination with any of the currently FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines, including the adenovirus vector Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, is unlikely to impair development of a protective antibody response.
COVID-19 vaccines are not currently recommended for outbreak management or for post-exposure prophylaxis to prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection in a person with a known exposure. Because the median of COVID-19 is 4–5 days, it is unlikely that a dose of COVID-19 vaccine would provide an adequate immune response within the incubation period for effective post-exposure prophylaxis.
People in the community or in outpatient settings who have had a known COVID-19 exposure should not seek vaccination until their has ended to avoid potentially exposing healthcare personnel and others during the vaccination visit. This recommendation also applies to people with a known COVID-19 exposure before receipt of the second mRNA vaccine dose.
Residents or patients with a known COVID-19 exposure in congregate healthcare settings (e.g., long-term care facilities) or congregate non-healthcare settings (e.g., correctional and detention facilities, homeless shelters) may be vaccinated. In these settings, exposure to and transmission of SARS-CoV-2 can occur repeatedly for long periods of time, and healthcare personnel and other staff are already in close contact with residents. People residing in congregate settings (healthcare and non-healthcare) who have had an exposure and are awaiting SARS-CoV-2 testing results may be vaccinated if they do not have . Vaccinators should employ appropriate .
Any currently FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine can be administered to people with underlying medical conditions who have no to vaccination; ACIP does not state a product preference. Clinical trials demonstrated similar safety and efficacy profiles in people with some underlying medical conditions, including those that place them at , compared to people without comorbidities. Additional information for people with specific underlying medical conditions is included below. Healthcare professionals or health departments in the United States can request a consultation from the project if they have complex COVID-19 vaccine safety questions not readily addressed by CDC guidance.
Myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) or pericarditis (inflammation of the lining around the heart) have (Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna). The mechanisms that cause myocarditis or pericarditis following vaccination with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine are not well understood. Cases of myocarditis or pericarditis have occurred predominantly in males aged 12-29 years within a few days after receiving the second dose of vaccine. Most patients have required hospitalization with resolution of acute symptoms. Follow-up is ongoing to identify and understand potential long-term outcomes among cases.
There are limited data on the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in people with a history of myocarditis or pericarditis. The interim considerations for the clinical scenarios detailed as follows may be updated as new information is obtained.
It is unclear if people who developed myocarditis or pericarditis after a first dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine may be at increased risk of further adverse cardiac effects following a second dose of the vaccine. Until additional safety data are available, experts recommend that people who develop myocarditis or pericarditis after a first dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine defer receiving the second dose.
Administration of the second dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine series can be considered in certain circumstances. Considerations for vaccination may include:
People with a history of myocarditis or pericarditis who choose to receive the second dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine should wait at least until their episode of myocarditis or pericarditis has completely resolved. This includes resolution of symptoms attributed to myocarditis or pericarditis, as well as no evidence of ongoing heart inflammation or sequelae as determined by the person’s clinical team, which may include a cardiologist, and special testing to assess cardiac recovery. Decisions about proceeding with the second dose should include a conversation between the patient, their parent, guardian, or caregiver (when relevant), and their clinical team.
People who have a history of myocarditis or pericarditis unrelated to mRNA COVID-19 vaccination may receive any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine after the episode of myocarditis or pericarditis has completely resolved. This includes resolution of symptoms attributed to myocarditis or pericarditis, as well as no evidence of ongoing heart inflammation or sequelae as determined by the person’s clinical team, which may include a cardiologist, and special testing to assess cardiac recovery.
CDC is continuing to investigate cases of myocarditis or pericarditis after mRNA COVID-19 vaccination; this guidance may be updated as new information is obtained. All cases of myocarditis or pericarditis following COVID-19 vaccination should be reported to .
The currently FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines are not live vaccines and therefore can be safely administered to immunocompromised people, including people with HIV infection or other immunocompromising conditions or people who take immunosuppressive medications or therapies. Although COVID-19 vaccine efficacy is unknown in these groups, immunocompromised people might be , and the potential benefit of COVID-19 vaccination outweighs the uncertainties. However, data suggest immune response to COVID-19 vaccination might be reduced in some immunocompromised people including, but not limited to, people receiving chemotherapy for cancer, people with hematologic cancers such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia, people receiving stem cells or organ transplants, people receiving hemodialysis, and people using certain medications that might blunt the immune response to vaccination (e.g.,  mycophenolate, rituximab, azathioprine, anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies, Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors).
People who are immunocompromised should be counseled about the potential for reduced immune responses to COVID-19 vaccines and the need to continue to follow (including wearing  they don’t live with, and avoiding crowds and poorly ventilated indoor spaces) to protect themselves against COVID-19 until advised otherwise by their healthcare provider. Close contacts of immunocompromised people should also be encouraged to be vaccinated against COVID-19 to help protect these people.
The safety, efficacy and benefit of additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines in immunocompromised persons continues to be evaluated. Clinical guidance for this population will be updated pending any amendments to the Emergency Use Authorizations.  The utility of serologic testing to assess immune response to vaccination is unknown. Serologic testing outside of the context of research studies is not recommended at this time.
People with autoimmune conditions were eligible for enrollment in COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials. No imbalances were observed in the occurrence of symptoms consistent with autoimmune conditions or inflammatory disorders in clinical trial participants who received COVID-19 vaccine compared to placebo. People with autoimmune conditions may receive any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine.
No cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) were reported following vaccination among participants in the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials. One case of GBS was reported in a participant in the vaccine group in the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine clinical trial, compared to one GBS case among those who received placebo. With few exceptions, ACIP’s do not include history of GBS as a contraindication or precaution to vaccination. People with a history of GBS may receive any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. Any occurrence of GBS following COVID-19 vaccination should be reported to .
Cases of Bell’s palsy were reported following vaccination of participants in the COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials. Available data were insufficient for FDA to conclude that these cases were causally related to vaccination. Post-authorization safety surveillance will be important to further assess any possible causal association. In the absence of such evidence, people with a history of Bell’s palsy may receive any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. Any occurrence of Bell’s palsy following COVID-19 vaccination should be reported to .
Infrequently, people who have received dermal fillers might experience swelling at or near the site of filler injection (usually face or lips) following administration of a dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (no similar occurrences were observed in the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials). The swelling appears to be temporary and resolves with medical treatment, including corticosteroid therapy. FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines can be administered to people who have received injectable dermal fillers who have no contraindications or precautions for vaccination. However, these people should be advised to contact their healthcare professional for evaluation if they experience swelling at or near a dermal filler site following vaccination.
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) is a rare syndrome that involves acute venous or arterial thrombosis and new onset thrombocytopenia in patients with no recent known exposure to heparin. In the United States, the majority of persons with TTS that occurred after Janssen COVID-19 vaccination had clots located in cerebral venous sinuses; clots also occurred in other unusual locations including in the portal vein and splenic vein, and included a combination of venous and arterial thromboses. FDA updated the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine Fact Sheet for Health Care Providers Administering Vaccine (Vaccination Providers) and Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers to include information about rare clotting events that might occur after vaccination, primarily among women aged 18–49 years. The EUA fact sheet should be provided to all vaccine recipients and their caregivers (when relevant) before vaccination with any authorized COVID-19 vaccine.
Women aged <50 years can receive any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine. However, they should be aware of the rare risk of TTS after receipt of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine and the availability of other FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines (i.e., mRNA vaccines). The highest rates of TTS per vaccine doses administered were identified in women <50 years of age. At the time of , TTS reporting rates to VAERS were 7.0 cases per million Janssen COVID-19 vaccine doses administered to women ages 18−49 years and 0.9 per million to women ages ≥50 years.
Although the etiology of TTS associated with the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine is unclear, it appears to be similar to another rare immune-mediated syndrome, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). Until more information becomes available, experts advise that persons with a history of an episode of an immune-mediated syndrome characterized by thrombosis and thrombocytopenia, such as HIT, should be offered another FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine (i.e., mRNA vaccine) if it has been ≤90 days since their illness resolved. After 90 days, patients may be vaccinated with any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE), defined as deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or both, are common. The biologic mechanisms for VTE (as well as arterial thrombi) differ from the underlying immune-mediated mechanism for HIT. Based on current knowledge, experts believe that people with risk factors for VTE (e.g., inherited or acquired thrombophilia including Factor V Leiden; prothrombin gene 20210A mutation; antiphospholipid syndrome; protein C, protein S or antithrombin deficiency), or a prior history of other types of thromboses (including cerebral venous sinus thrombosis [CVST]) not associated with thrombocytopenia are unlikely to be at increased risk for TTS. Likewise, although the risk of thrombosis is increased during pregnancy and the postpartum period, and with certain hormonal contraceptives (e.g., combined oral contraceptives, patch, and ring), experts believe that these factors do not make people more susceptible to TTS after receipt of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine. These people can receive any FDA-authorized vaccine, including the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine.
It is not recommended that people take aspirin or an anticoagulant before vaccination with the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine or any other FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine (i.e., mRNA vaccine) unless they take these medications as part of their routine medications.
Any of the currently authorized COVID-19 vaccines can be administered to pregnant or lactating people; ACIP does not state a product preference. However, pregnant, lactating, and post-partum people aged <50 years should be aware of the rare risk of TTS after receipt of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine and the availability of other FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines (i.e., mRNA vaccines). See also .
Observational demonstrate that pregnant people with COVID-19 have an increased risk of severe illness, including illness resulting in intensive care admission, mechanical ventilation, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, or death, though the absolute risk for these outcomes is low. Additionally, they are at increased risk of preterm birth and might be at an increased risk of adverse pregnancy complications and outcomes, such as preeclampsia, coagulopathy, and stillbirth.
Data on the safety of COVID-19 vaccines in pregnant people are limited. No female reproduction or fetal, embryonal, or postnatal development safety concerns were demonstrated in animals that received Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, or Janssen COVID-19 vaccines before or during gestation. In addition, the adenovirus vector platform used in the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine has also been used for other Janssen vaccine development programs that have included pregnant people vaccinated during any trimester, including in a large-scale Ebola vaccination trial. No adverse pregnancy-related outcomes—including infant outcomes—were determined to be related to the vaccine in these trials.
Based on current knowledge, experts believe that COVID-19 vaccines are unlikely to pose a risk to the pregnant person or fetus. The FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines (i.e., mRNA vaccines and a non-replicating viral vector vaccine) cannot cause infection in either the mother or the fetus. of risk to the fetus from vaccinating pregnant people with non-replicating vaccines in general. However, the potential risks of COVID-19 vaccines to the pregnant person and the fetus are unknown, because these vaccines have not been extensively studied in pregnant people. Clinical trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in pregnant people are underway or planned. Vaccine manufacturers are also following outcomes in people in the clinical trials who became pregnant.
CDC recently released on the safety of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines administered during pregnancy. The report analyzed data from three vaccine-safety-related databases: VAERS, the v-safe active surveillance system, and the v-safe pregnancy registry, which collects additional detailed data on pregnant people and their infants. Early data from these systems did not identify any safety concerns for pregnant people who were vaccinated or for their babies. Most of the pregnancies in these systems are ongoing; additional follow-up is needed, particularly among those vaccinated in the first and second trimesters of pregnancy. CDC will continue to collect information from people who agree to participate in these vaccine-safety-related databases.
Pregnant persons are eligible for and can receive a COVID-19 vaccine. A conversation between the patient and their clinical team may assist with decisions about the use of a COVID-19 vaccine, though a conversation with a healthcare professional is not required before vaccination. When making a decision, pregnant people and their healthcare professionals should consider the level of COVID-19 community transmission, the patient’s personal risk of contracting COVID-19, the increased risks of severe COVID-19 to the patient and potential risks to the fetus, the known and potential benefits of vaccination, efficacy of the vaccine, side effects of the vaccine, and the limited but growing data about the safety of the vaccine during pregnancy. COVID-19 vaccines and other vaccines for additional information on coadministration of COVID-19 vaccines and other recommended vaccines see . Pregnant people who choose to receive COVID-19 vaccine are encouraged to enroll in .
Side effects can occur with COVID-19 vaccine use in pregnant people, similar to those expected among non-pregnant people. Acetaminophen can be offered as an option for pregnant people experiencing fever (which has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes) or other post-vaccination symptoms.
There is no recommendation for routine pregnancy testing before receipt of a COVID-19 vaccine. Those who are trying to become pregnant do not need to avoid pregnancy after COVID-19 vaccination. There is no evidence that any of the COVID-19 vaccines affect future fertility.
There are no data on the safety of COVID-19 vaccines in lactating people or the effects of COVID-19 vaccines on the breastfed infant or milk production and excretion. However, the FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines (i.e., mRNA vaccines and a non-replicating viral vector vaccine) cannot cause infection in either the mother or the infant. Therefore, lactating people can receive a COVID-19 vaccine.
Adolescents ages 12–17 years are eligible to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine and may be vaccinated with . Sites administering COVID-19 vaccines should follow current state/jurisdictional policies and practices for other routine immunizations in this age group.
Available safety, immunogenicity, and reactogenicity data are similar to those seen in young adults ages 16-25 years. may occur in association with any injectable vaccines, especially among adolescents. Procedures should be in place to prevent falling injuries and manage syncopal reactions. All people are recommended to be observed for 15 minutes after vaccination (including COVID-19 vaccination); patients should be seated or lying down during the observation period to decrease the risk for injury should they faint. If syncope develops, patients should be observed until symptoms resolve.
Children younger than age 12 years are not authorized to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at this time. Children and adolescents younger than age 18 years are not authorized to receive the Moderna or Janssen COVID-19 vaccines at this time.
The vaccine-specific EUA Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers should be provided to all vaccine recipients, parents or guardians, and caregivers (when relevant) before vaccination with any FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccine.
Preliminary data suggest high vaccine efficacy in preventing COVID-19 following receipt of two doses of mRNA COVID-19 vaccine (Pfizer-BioNTech: 95.0% [95% CI: 90.3%, 97.6%] for people ages ≥16 years and 100% [95% CI: 75.3%, 100%] for adolescents ages 12–15 years; Moderna: 94.1% [95% CI: 89.3%, 96.8%]). Patients should be counseled on the importance of completing the two-dose series with the same vaccine product to optimize protection.
Before vaccination, vaccination providers should counsel mRNA COVID-19 vaccine recipients about expected local (e.g., pain, swelling, erythema at the injection site, localized axillary lymphadenopathy on the same side as the vaccinated arm) and systemic (e.g., fever, fatigue, headache, chills, myalgia, arthralgia) post-vaccination symptoms. Depending on vaccine product ( vs. ), age group, and vaccine dose, approximately 80%–91% of vaccinated people experience at least one local symptom and 48%–91% experience at least one systemic symptom following vaccination.
Most systemic post-vaccination symptoms are mild to moderate in severity, occur within the first three days of vaccination, and resolve within 1–2 days of onset. Overall, symptoms are more frequent and severe following the second dose and among younger people compared with older people (i.e., ages >55 or ≥65 years [for Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna vaccines, respectively]). People with prior SARS-CoV-2 infection may be more likely to experience symptoms such as fever, chills, and myalgia after the first mRNA COVID-19 vaccine dose. Unless people have a , they should be encouraged to complete the series to optimize protection against COVID-19 even if they experience local or systemic symptoms following the first dose.
In view of reports of myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart) after receipt of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, FDA required revisions to the EUA fact sheets for the and the to include information about myocarditis and pericarditis. For each mRNA vaccine, the Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers notes that myocarditis or pericarditis have occurred in some people who have received the vaccine. In most of these people, symptoms began within a few days following receipt of the second dose of the vaccine. The chance of myocarditis or pericarditis occurring after receipt of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine is very low. People should seek medical attention right away if they have any of the following symptoms after receiving the vaccine:
ACIP reviewed a benefit-risk assessment of myocarditis and pericarditis after vaccination with mRNA COVID-19 vaccines. ACIP determined that the benefits of using mRNA COVID-19 vaccines clearly outweigh the risks of myocarditis and pericarditis. Based on ACIP’s conclusion regarding the benefit-risk assessment on June 23, 2021, COVID-19 vaccination continues to be recommended for everyone aged 12 years and older under the FDA EUAs. People receiving mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, especially males aged 12-29 years, should be aware of the possibility of myocarditis or pericarditis following receipt of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines and the need to seek care if symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis develop after vaccination. Clinicians should consult for information on the evaluation and management of myocarditis or pericarditis.
Preliminary data suggest an overall efficacy of 66.3% (95% CI: 59.9%, 71.8%) against symptomatic, laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 from ≥14 days after vaccination with Janssen COVID-19 vaccine. Vaccine efficacy for the prevention of COVID-19-associated hospitalization was high; vaccine efficacy against hospitalization ≥14 days after vaccination was 93.1% (95% CI: 71.1%, 98.4%). No COVID-19–associated hospitalizations occurred ≥28 days after vaccination in the vaccine group, and 16 occurred in the placebo group (vaccine efficacy = 100%; 95% CI = 74.3%, 100.0%). Vaccine efficacy against all-cause death was 75.0% (95% CI: 33.4%, 90.6%).
Before vaccination, vaccination providers should counsel Janssen COVID-19 vaccine recipients about expected local (e.g., pain, swelling, erythema at the injection site) and systemic (e.g., fever, fatigue, headache, chills, myalgia, arthralgia) . Fifty percent of vaccinated people experience at least one local symptom, with pain at the injection site most common, and approximately 55% experience at least one systemic symptom following vaccination. Most systemic post-vaccination symptoms are mild to moderate in severity and resolve within 1–2 days after vaccination. Overall, symptoms were more frequent in younger people than older people (ages ≥60 years).
In view of reports of TTS after receipt of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, FDA updated the fact sheets. The Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers notes that blood clots involving blood vessels in the brain, abdomen, and legs along with low levels of platelets have occurred in some people who received the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine and that these symptoms began approximately 1-2 weeks following vaccination. Most people who developed these blood clots were women ages 18-49 years. Although the chance of having this occur is remote, people should seek medical attention right away if they have any of the following symptoms after receiving Janssen COVID-19 vaccine:
ACIP a risk-benefit assessment of TTS events after vaccination with the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine. Based on this risk-benefit analysis, ACIP reaffirmed its interim recommendation for the use of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine in all persons ages ≥18 years, while still acknowledging the increased risk for TTS in women aged <50 years. These women should be aware of the increased risk for TTS and the availability of other FDA-authorized COVID-19 vaccines (i.e., mRNA vaccines). Clinicians should consult the HAN and from the American Society of Hematology for information on the diagnosis and treatment of suspected cases of TTS.
For all currently authorized COVID-19 vaccines, antipyretic or analgesic medications (e.g., acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) can be taken for the treatment of post-vaccination local or systemic symptoms, if medically appropriate. However, routine prophylactic administration of these medications for the purpose of preventing post-vaccination symptoms is not currently recommended, because information on the impact of such use on COVID-19 vaccine-induced antibody responses is not yet available.
Anaphylactic reactions have been rarely reported following receipt of COVID-19 vaccines. Administration of antihistamines to COVID-19 vaccine recipients before vaccination to prevent allergic reactions is not recommended. Antihistamines do not prevent anaphylaxis, and their use might mask cutaneous symptoms, which could lead to a delay in the diagnosis and management of anaphylaxis. See section on and for more information on management of anaphylaxis.
Infection prevention and control considerations are available for and with systemic signs and symptoms following COVID-19 vaccination.
Contraindications and precautions to COVID-19 vaccines are described below and summarized in . For the purposes of this guidance, an immediate allergic reaction to a vaccine or medication is defined as any hypersensitivity-related signs or symptoms such as urticaria, angioedema, respiratory distress (e.g., wheezing, stridor), or anaphylaxis that occur within four hours following administration.
Healthcare professionals or health departments in the United States can request a consultation from the project about an individual patient residing in the United States for a complex COVID-19 vaccine safety question not readily addressed by CDC guidance.
CDC considers a history of the following to be a contraindication to vaccination with COVID-19 vaccines:
See for a list of ingredients in COVID-19 vaccines. Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is an ingredient in both mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, and polysorbate 80 is an ingredient in Janssen COVID-19 vaccine. PEG and polysorbate are structurally related, and cross-reactive hypersensitivity between these compounds may occur. People with a contraindication to one of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines should not receive doses of either of the mRNA vaccines (Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna). However, people with a contraindication to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines may be able to receive Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, and vice versa, provided certain measures are taken (see “precautions” below). Known polysorbate allergy is no longer a contraindication to mRNA vaccination; however, known polysorbate allergy is a contraindication to Janssen COVID-19 vaccine and thus, a precaution to mRNA COVID-19 vaccination.
Healthcare professionals should attempt to determine whether reactions reported following vaccination are consistent with immediate allergic reactions versus other types of reactions commonly observed following vaccination, such as a vasovagal reaction or post-vaccination side effects ( ). This will help determine which patients have a contraindication to vaccination, including to the second dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine.
Most people deemed to have a precaution to a COVID-19 vaccine at the time of their vaccination appointment can and should be administered vaccine. CDC considers a history of an immediate allergic reaction to any other vaccine or injectable therapy (i.e., intramuscular, intravenous, or subcutaneous vaccines or therapies [excluding subcutaneous immunotherapy for allergies, i.e., “allergy shots”]) as a precaution but not a contraindication to vaccination. People with a history of an immediate allergic reaction to a vaccine or injectable therapy that contains multiple components, one or more of which is a component of a COVID-19 vaccine, have a precaution to vaccination with that COVID-19 vaccine, even if it is unknown which component elicited the allergic reaction.
People with a contraindication to one type of the currently authorized COVID-19 vaccines (e.g., mRNA) have a precaution to the other (e.g., Janssen viral vector). However, because of potential cross-reactive hypersensitivity between ingredients in mRNA and Janssen COVID-19 vaccines, consultation with an allergist-immunologist should be considered to help determine if the patient can safely receive vaccination. Healthcare professionals and health departments may also request a consultation from the project. Vaccination of these individuals should only be undertaken in an appropriate setting under the supervision of a healthcare professional experienced in the management of severe allergic reactions.
Allergic reactions (including severe allergic reactions) not related to vaccines (COVID-19 or other vaccines) or injectable therapies, such as allergic reactions related to food, pet, venom, or environmental allergies, or allergies to oral medications (including the oral equivalents of injectable medications), are a contraindication or precaution to COVID-19 vaccination. The vial stoppers of COVID-19 vaccines are not made with natural rubber latex, and there is no contraindication or precaution to vaccination for people with a latex allergy. In addition, because the COVID-19 vaccines do not contain eggs or gelatin, people with allergies to these substances do not have a contraindication or precaution to vaccination.
CDC recommends the following observation periods after COVID-19 vaccination:
Appropriate medical treatment used to manage immediate allergic reactions must be immediately available in the event an acute anaphylactic reaction occurs following administration of COVID-19 vaccine. Further information on anaphylaxis management can be found in the interim considerations for the and .
Adverse events that occur in a recipient following COVID-19 vaccination should be reported to VAERS. Vaccination providers are required by the FDA to report the following that occur after COVID-19 vaccination under EUA:
In addition, CDC has developed a new voluntary, smartphone-based tool, . This tool uses text messaging and web surveys to provide near real-time health check-ins after patients receive COVID-19 vaccination. Reports to indicating a medically significant health impact, including pregnancy, are followed up by the CDC/ call center to collect additional information to complete a VAERS report, if appropriate.
Prior receipt of a COVID-19 vaccine will not affect the results of SARS-CoV-2 viral tests (nucleic acid amplification or antigen tests). Currently available antibody tests for SARS-CoV-2 assess IgM and/or IgG to one of two viral proteins: spike or nucleocapsid. Because COVID-19 vaccines are constructed to encode the spike protein, a positive test for spike protein IgM/IgG could indicate prior infection and/or vaccination. To evaluate for evidence of prior infection in an individual with a history of COVID-19 vaccination, a that specifically evaluates IgM/IgG to the nucleocapsid protein should be used.
Antibody testing is not currently recommended to assess for immunity to SARS-CoV-2 following COVID-19 vaccination, because the clinical utility of post-vaccination testing has not been established. Antibody tests currently have variable sensitivity, specificity, as well as positive and negative predictive values, and are not authorized for the assessment of immune response in vaccinated people. Furthermore, the serologic correlates of protection have not been established, and antibody testing does not evaluate the cellular immune response, which may also play a role in vaccine-mediated protection. Finally, antibody testing against nucleocapsid will not detect immune responses resulting from vaccination, but patients may not always know what type of antibody test was used. If antibody testing was performed following vaccination, additional doses of the same or different COVID-19 vaccines are not recommended based on antibody test results at this time. If antibody testing was done after the first dose of an mRNA vaccine, the vaccination series should be completed regardless of the antibody test result.
COVID-19 vaccination should not be delayed because of testing for TB infection. Testing for TB infection with one of the immune-based methods, either the , can be done before or during the same encounter as COVID-19 vaccination. When testing with TST or IGRA cannot be done at the same time as COVID-19 vaccination, these tests should be delayed ≥4 weeks after the completion of COVID-19 vaccination but generally should not be cancelled.
Patients who have active TB disease or an illness that is being evaluated as active TB disease can receive a COVID-19 vaccine (note: the presence of a moderate or severe acute illness is a ). Whereas a TST or IGRA test is part of a comprehensive evaluation for TB disease, positive TST or IGRA results are not required to active TB disease. When considering a tuberculin skin test or interferon-gamma release assay:
A vaccine administration error is any preventable event that may cause or lead to inappropriate use of vaccine or patient harm. This appendix provides resources for preventing and reporting COVID-19 vaccine administration errors, as well as actions to take after an error has occurred. For completeness, this includes additional scenarios that deviate from CDC recommendations for vaccine intervals but are not considered administration errors. This document is intended to assist vaccination providers with handling exceptional situations in which a vaccination error or deviation has already occurred and may be updated when additional information becomes available.
(Pfizer-BioNTech Moderna, and Janssen COVID-19 vaccines)
(Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna)
Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines only: *If the dose given in error is the first dose, a second dose should be administered at the recommended interval (21 days [Pfizer-BioNTech] or 28 days [Moderna]). If this dose is the second dose, the series is complete, and no additional doses are needed. ∞Do not administer the second dose until the person becomes eligible to receive vaccination (either by reaching the authorized age or if the authorization is extended to include additional age groups), even if this results in the second dose being administered after the recommended interval between doses. #If the dose given in error is the first dose, the second dose should be administered at the recommended interval (21 days [Pfizer-BioNTech] or 28 days [Moderna]) from the date of receipt of the valid dose (not the date of receipt of the erroneous dose). †If the administration error resulted in a higher-than-authorized vaccine dose, in general the second dose may still be administered at the recommended interval. However, if local or systemic side effects following vaccination are clinically concerning (outside of the expected side effect profile), lead to serious adverse reactions, or are ongoing at the time of the second dose, the decision to administer the second dose may be assessed on a case-by-case basis. §Although CDC provides considerations for a , this is still considered an administration error that requires VAERS reporting (as a mixed series is not authorized under the vaccine ).
Note: people with a contraindication to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines have a precaution to Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, and vice versa. See footnote for additional information on additional measures to take in these people.#
† See for a list of ingredients. People with a contraindication to one of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines should not receive doses of either of the mRNA vaccines (Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna). * Immediate allergic reaction to a vaccine or medication is defined as any hypersensitivity-related signs or symptoms consistent with urticaria, angioedema, respiratory distress (e.g., wheezing, stridor), or anaphylaxis that occur within four hours following administration. ‡People with a history of an immediate allergic reaction to a vaccine or injectable therapy that contains multiple components, one or more of which is a component of a COVID-19 vaccine, have a precaution to vaccination with that COVID-19 vaccine, even if it is unknown which component elicited the allergic reaction. #Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is an ingredient in both mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, and polysorbate 80 is an ingredient in Janssen COVID-19 vaccine. PEG and polysorbate are structurally related, and cross-reactive hypersensitivity between these compounds may occur. People with a contraindication to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines (including due to a known allergy to PEG) have a precaution to Janssen COVID-19 vaccine. Among people who received one mRNA COVID-19 dose but for whom the second dose is contraindicated, consideration may be given to vaccination with Janssen COVID-19 vaccine (administered at least 28 days after the mRNA COVID-19 dose). People with a contraindication to Janssen COVID-19 vaccine (including due to a known allergy to polysorbate) have a precaution to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines. For people with these precautions, referral to an allergist-immunologist should be considered. Healthcare professionals and health departments may also request a consultation from the project. In patients with these precautions, vaccination should only be undertaken in an appropriate setting under the supervision of a healthcare professional experienced in the management of severe allergic reactions.
The following is a list of ingredients for the , , and COVID-19 vaccines reported in the prescribing information for each vaccine.*
* None of the vaccines contain eggs, gelatin, latex, or preservatives. All COVID-19 vaccines are such as iron, nickel, cobalt, lithium, rare earth alloys or any manufactured products such as microelectronics, electrodes, carbon nanotubes, or nanowire semiconductors. Note: Both the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna COVID-19 vaccines contain polyethylene glycol (PEG). PEG is a primary ingredient in osmotic laxatives and oral bowel preparations for colonoscopy procedures, an inactive ingredient or excipient in many medications, and is used in a process called “pegylation” to improve the therapeutic activity of some medications (including certain chemotherapeutics). Additionally, cross-reactive hypersensitivity between PEG and polysorbates (included as an excipient in some vaccines and other therapeutic agents) can occur. Information on active or inactive ingredients for vaccines and medications can be found in the package insert. and the National Institutes of Health can also be used as a resource.
In patients who experience post-vaccination symptoms, determining the etiology (including allergic reaction, vasovagal reaction, or vaccine side effects) is important to determine whether a person can receive additional doses of the vaccine (including the second dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine). The following table of signs and symptoms is meant to serve as a resource but might not be exhaustive, and patients might not have all signs or symptoms. Vaccination providers should use their clinical judgement when assessing patients to determine the diagnosis and management.
