Schools and school districts are consistently a large part of the daily life for many American children and families and uniquely positioned to teach about, link to, or even deliver COVID-19 vaccines.
On this page, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides action steps school leaders can take to support COVID-19 vaccine uptake and improve health literacy among staff, students, and families in their community. Which actions school districts decide to take will depend on state and local policies, health service infrastructure, and available resources.
Together, we can help our country reach COVID-19 vaccination goals.
partnered with the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health to hold 250 SLV clinics across the district using their school-based health centers or to reach COVID-19 vaccine eligible middle and high school students before the summer of 2021. .
allowed COVID-19 vaccine eligible students a “skip day” to miss class and be vaccinated at a large clinic run by a community health center on two runways of the local airport. By partnering with the Capital Region Educational Council (CREC), the school was able to bus more than 1,000 students—with permission from their parents—to be vaccinated. Health experts from the community health center also answered COVID-19 vaccination questions from parents in a virtual town hall.
Establishing partnerships can be helpful for many COVID-19 vaccine-related activities. Partners may include local health departments, municipal governments and local healthcare providers, as well as local businesses, churches, sports teams, community-based organizations, unions, and media companies.
It is important for school staff, including teachers and administrators, know what role they play in COVID-19 vaccine-related communication, education, and activities.
Over the summer, regularly communicate with your staff, students, and families with up-to-date science about COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines.
“Vaccine confidence” is the trust that people have in recommended vaccines. Right now, families in your school community may be wading through a lot of information—and misinformation—to make decisions about COVID-19 vaccinations.
Many families have been doing their part by staying at home as much as possible to help stop the spread of COVID-19, but as a result, many children and adolescents have missed annual wellness visits or check-ups.
Teaching students is what schools and their staff do best. Discussions and lessons about COVID-19 and vaccination can be incorporated in many different subjects in age appropriate, meaningful ways.
Download age-appropriate COVID-19 vaccine educational posters to use around the school building, in classrooms, and on your school social media channels.
