By providing information about COVID-19 vaccination and establishing supportive policies and practices, employers can help increase vaccine uptake among essential workers. Although COVID-19 vaccine supply is currently limited, it’s not too early to share clear, complete, and accurate messages, promote confidence in the decision to get vaccinated, and engage your employees in plans to address potential barriers to vaccination. Strong confidence in the vaccines within your workplace leads to more people getting vaccinated, which leads to fewer COVID-19 illnesses, hospitalizations, and deaths.
Resources are available to help you. The National Forum on COVID-19 Vaccine shared a variety of materials and resources to help provide COVID-19 vaccine equitably, effectively, and quickly to as many people as possible in communities across the country.
Communication resources for employees and employers to encourage COVID-19 vaccination to protect your workplace.
CDC and FDA encourage the public to report possible side effects (called “adverse events”) to the . Employers can also encourage employees to enroll in a new smartphone-based tool called “ .” CDC is implementing v-safe to check in on people’s health after they receive a COVID-19 vaccine. When employees receive a vaccine, they should also receive a v-safe information sheet telling them how to enroll in v-safe. If they enroll, they will receive regular text messages directing them to surveys where they can report any problems or adverse reactions after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine. CDC also provides for people who have had allergic reactions to other vaccines and for those with other types of allergies.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does mandate vaccination. However, whether a state, local government, or employer, for example, may require or mandate COVID-19 vaccination is a matter of state or other applicable law.
Whether an employer may require or mandate COVID-19 vaccination is a matter of state or other applicable law. If an employer requires employees to provide proof that they have received a COVID-19 vaccination from a pharmacy or their own healthcare provider, the employer cannot mandate that the employee provide any medical information as part of the proof.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) provides guidance on mandatory vaccination against H1N1 influenza. The EEOC guidance may be applicable to COVID-19 vaccination, which became available in December 2020.
After employees are , they may be able to start doing some things they had stopped doing because of the pandemic. However, in work settings, even after employees receive a COVID-19 vaccine, they may still need to take steps to in many situations. Employers should continue to follow the . This includes wearing well-fitting masks, making sure employees are staying at least 6 feet (about 2 arm lengths) apart from each other, avoiding crowds and poorly ventilated spaces, and washing hands often. The more contact the employees have with one another the more likely they are to be exposed to COVID-19. If other workplace health and safety measures, such as engineering controls (e.g., barrier protections), were installed, they need to remain in place.
It is important to conduct a thorough assessment of the workplace to identify potential workplace hazards related to COVID-19. Widespread vaccination of employees can be one consideration for restarting operations and returning to the workplace. Other considerations for returning to the workplace include:
