A: Medical gloves are intended to provide broad barrier protection. Please see current . At this time, FDA has not cleared, approved, or authorized any medical gloves for specific protection against the virus that causes COVID-19 or prevention of COVID-19 infection.
A: The FDA issued a guidance document entitled to provide a policy to help expand the availability of these items for health care professionals. This document includes the FDA’s policies regarding surgeon’s and patient examination gloves during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A: The FDA generally does not recommend reuse of gloves. The FDA recognizes that there may be availability concerns with gloves during the COVID-19 public health emergency, but there are .
A: During the COVID-19 public health emergency, the FDA does not expect manufacturers to submit notification to FDA before they begin marketing their product or to comply with certain regulatory requirements where the medical gloves do not create an undue risk in light of the pandemic as outlined in the FDA’s .
A: The FDA does not have an exhaustive list of all counterfeit or fraudulent products. To report fraudulent COVID-19 products to the FDA, email .
Device manufacturers that are required pursuant to section 506J to notify FDA of an interruption or permanent discontinuance in manufacturing should submit their notifications via email to during the COVID-19 public health emergency.  Please begin the email subject line with the word "Notification."  The FDA released an to assist manufacturers in providing the FDA with timely and informative notifications about changes in the production of certain medical device products that will help FDA prevent or mitigate shortages of such devices during the COVID-19 public health emergency. The FDA revised this guidance to include a that FDA recommends manufacturers consider in determining whether they are required to notify FDA pursuant to Section 506J during the COVID-19 pandemic. This list represents FDA’s current understanding of the circumstances described above. This list is not exhaustive, and FDA intends to update this list as the COVID-19 pandemic evolves. The FDA will publicly announce any changes to this list.
