(2) The Cabinet member responsible for basic education may by direction contemplated in regulation 4(3), determine the dates on which schools, as defined in the South African Schools Act, 1996 (Act No. 84 of 1996), will be reopened and any matter related to the management of schools in the basic education sector, to address, prevent and combat the spread of COVID-19 in all schools.
(3) The Cabinet member responsible for higher education may by direction contemplated in regulation 4(3), determine the dates on which institutions of higher education will be reopened and any matter related to the management of institutions of higher education sector, to address, prevent and combat the spread of COVID-19 in all schools.
(17) Sporting activities, including both professional and nonprofessional matches, by recognised sporting bodies are allowed, subject to strict adherence to the times of operation as provided for in regulation 17(3) and the following: (a) Directions for sports matches issued by the Cabinet member responsible for sport after consultation with the Cabinet member responsible for health; (b) only journalists, radio, television crew, security personnel, emergency medical services, and the necessary employees employed by the owners of the venue of the sport match, are allowed at the venue of the sport match; (c) only the required number of players, match officials, support staff and medical crew required for the sport match, are allowed at the venue of the sport match; (d) no spectators are allowed at the venue of the sports match; and (e) international sport events involving countries with a low or medium COVID-19 infection and transmission rate are allowed.
(4) The Cabinet member responsible for cooperative governance and traditional affairs may, by direction in the Gazette, determine any other place or premises that must be closed, if there is a risk to any person or members of the public being exposed to COVID-19.
(3) Daily commuters from neighbouring countries who attend or teach at a school in the Republic, and who are allowed entry into and exit from the Republic, are subject to compliance with protocols relating to- (a) screening for COVI D-19 and quarantine or isolation, where necessary; (b) the wearing of a face mask; (c) transportation; and (d) sanitisation and social distancing measures as per the relevant health protocols on safety and prevention of the spread of COVID-19.
(4) (a) International air travel is restricted to the following airports- (i) OR Tambo International Airport; (ii) King Shaka International Airport; (iii) Cape Town International Airport; (iv) Lanseria International Airport; and (v) Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport. (b) Long-haul flight departures and landings at the airports listed in paragraph (a) are permitted during the hours of curfew as provided for in regulation 17(1). (c) All international travellers arriving at the airports listed in paragraph (a) must provide a valid certificate of a negative COVID-19 test, recognised by the World Health Organisation, which was obtained not more than 72 hours before the date of travel. (d) In the event of the traveller's failure to submit a certificate as proof of a negative COVID-19 test, the traveller will be required to do an antigen test on arrival at his or her own cost and in the event of a traveller testing positive for COVID-19, he or she will be required to isolate him or herself at his or her own cost, for a period of 10 days. (5) All commercial seaports will remain open and small crafts will be allowed entry into seaports, in-line with all health and border law enforcement protocols.
(2) The Cabinet member responsible for trade, industry and competition may, after consultation with the Cabinet members responsible for transport and finance, issue directions that provide for the management, administration and prioritisation of exports or imports, taking into account the need to prevent and limit the spread of COVID-19 and to deal with the destructive and other effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
(5) The directions to be issued by the Cabinet member responsible for transport must set out the health protocols that must be adhered to and the steps to be followed for the lim itation of the exposure of members of the public using public transport to COVID-19.
(4) (a) Firms must adhere to any sector-specific health protocols intended to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the sector concerned. (b) Sector-specific health protocols may address matters such as work rotation, staggered working hours, shift systems, remote working arrangements, special measures affecting persons with greater vulnerabilities or similar measures. in order to achieve social distancing, protect employees or limit congestion in public transport and at the workplace. (c) Sector-specific health protocols where these are still to be developed, must be developed and issued by Cabinet members responsible for a sector in consultation with the Cabinet member responsible for health.
